# Meeting about writing the paper, September 13, 2023
- Attendees:
  - Frederik Krogsdal Jacobsen
  - Luca Padovani
  - Lorenzo Gheri
  - Alceste Scalas
  - Francisco Ferreira
  - Daniel Zackon
  - Alberto Momigliano
  - Marco Carbone
  - David Castro-Perez
- Alberto has some aesthetic comments:
  - There is too much repetition which is redundant and boring
  - Move it into a preliminary section with conventions etc.
  - We could also move the description of the syntactic elements there
  - The definitions of similarity is different in the challenges
    - This is by design for now
- Making sure that the challenges make sense
  - Most people are working on linearity
  - Francisco is working on scope extrusion
  - Alberto has a student working on the second challenge
  - Frederik is working on coinduction
- Can we make it for ESOP and what do we need?
  - Minimum:
    - One formalization for each challenge
    - A reasonable paper proof for each challenge
    - Precise descriptions of each challenge in a technical report
  - We don't want to have to change things after publication
  - Should we try a collective effort for formalizing?
    - HOAS people are working semi-collectively
  - Write the chair of ESOP and ask if fresh perspectives are published
- Unifying syntax?
  - Unguarded choice is dangerous with coinduction
    - Choosing parallel compositions introduce trouble in the proofs
  - It might be interesting to talk about different notions of bisimulation wrt. the coinduction challenge
    - It might be easier to formulate one notion in different proof assistants
    - Maybe it is better to just mention this in a discussion/extension section so people can think about if they want to
- Extensions
  - Keep an eye open for potential things that could be interesting to also investigate while formalising
  - Two categories: other topics and small technical differences
- Should we do the paper proof after formalizations or in parallel?
  - It would be great if someone could try to write down paper proofs
  - Marco will take a look
  - Luca will take a look
- How do we prevent redundant work?
  - Francisco will start a file in the repo
  - Commit to that file when you start working on something
- Next meeting
  - Francisco will send out a call for a meeting in approx. 2 weeks
- Who manages the overall paper file?
  - Frederik can do it
  - Frederik can remove redundancies from the challenges
